---
title: Chapter 1.1.1 - Software Engineering
id: 20251020101246
tags: []
---
# Chapter 1.1.1 - Software Engineering
## Definitions and subdivions
### Software ENGINEERING
Software engineering concerns all aspects of software production, from early planning and specification to maintainance and evolution. There are 2 main phases:
1. _Engineering discipline_ involves making things work, applyting theories and methods selectively to deliver within budget and time constraints.
2. Software engineering also involves _other aspects of software production_ such as devloping tools and methods and project management.

### Why software engineering?
Generally a systematic and organized approach is helpful in software engineering. However, it depends on the project. The reason software engineering is so important is that:
1. Software is increasingly important in peoples lives and we require reliability and security.
2. Its cheaper to develop software in a thoughtful way from the get-go as opposed to the costs associated with maintaining and fixing bad software.

### Software process
**The software process:**
1. Software specification
2. Software development
3. Software validation
4. Software evolution
(The four phases may overlap in more iterative and less security sensitive applications like web apps. Other systems require detailed specification before development can begin)

### CS and Systems
**Computer science** concerns computer theory and is usually applicable on a small scale.
**Systems engineering** concerns development of complex systems that usually have software components. Also concerns hardware, policy, deployment, and software engineering.

### Issues in software
While few general rules apply to ALL software, some issues tend to affect many types of software:
1. _Heterogeneity_: Software has to run on many devices/platforms and interact with new and old software.
2. _Business and social change_: Rapis change requires software development to improve, meeting ever tighter deadlines.
3. _Security and trust_: As software is increasingly important, so it security. The reward for breaching software systems becomes greater, and the barrier can be low with high complexity systems.
4. _Scale_: Software is developed on everything from tiny, embedded systems, to distributed, cloud-based systems.WW